REMAINING_TASKS.md, before:

# Chrome Web Highlighter - Remaining Tasks Tracker

## 📊 Project Status Overview
**Current Version**: MVP Complete (Core features working)  
**Target Release**: Chrome Web Store Free Version  
**Last Updated**: January 2025

---

## ✅ Completed Features
- [x] Core highlighting functionality
- [x] Highlight persistence and restoration
- [x] Color selection (4 colors)
- [x] Mini toolbar with actions
- [x] Popup with highlight list
- [x] Export (JSON & Text)
- [x] Search & Filter functionality
- [x] Clear All with confirmation
- [x] Undo for individual deletes
- [x] Dark glassmorphic theme
- [x] Modular architecture

---

## 🚀 Remaining Tasks for FREE Version Launch

### 1. **Basic Notes Feature with Detail View** ⭐ HIGH PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 4-5 hours  
**Status**: ✅ COMPLETED

**Requirements**:
- [x] Implement detail view pattern in popup
- [x] Add back navigation from detail to list view
- [x] Show full highlight text in detail view
- [x] Add note textarea (500 char limit) with character counter
- [x] Display note preview in list view (first 50 chars)
- [x] Note indicator icon for highlights with notes
- [x] Save/edit notes functionality
- [x] Export notes with highlights
- [x] **BONUS: Notes in Mini Toolbar** - Added expandable note field

**Detail View Layout**:
- Back button header
- Full highlight text (not truncated)
- Note textarea with char counter
- Color picker row
- Action buttons (Copy, Delete)

**Technical Notes**:
- Update highlight data structure to include `note` field
- Add view state management for list/detail navigation
- Smooth transitions between views

### 1.1 **Mini Toolbar Notes Feature** ✅ COMPLETED
**What Made Save/Cancel Buttons Work**:

**The Critical Fix**: Understanding event capture vs bubble phases in nested interactive elements.

**Problem**: 
- Highlight click handler used capture phase: `addEventListener('click', handler, true)`
- This meant it received events BEFORE the note field could stop them
- Timeline: mousedown → highlight clicks → toolbar moves → click fires on empty space

**Solution - Three Protection Layers**:

1. **Mousedown Flag System** (The Key Fix):
   ```javascript
   // Detect mousedown on note field BEFORE click happens
   document.addEventListener('mousedown', (e) => {
     if (e.target.closest('.note-field-container')) {
       this._ignoreNextHighlightClick = true;
       setTimeout(() => this._ignoreNextHighlightClick = false, 100);
     }
   }, true);
   ```

2. **Direct Click Detection**:
   ```javascript
   // In highlight click handler
   if (e.target.closest('.note-field-container')) {
     return; // Ignore clicks on note field
   }
   ```

3. **Existing Note Field Check**:
   ```javascript
   // Prevent repositioning if note field already open
   const existingNoteField = document.querySelector('.note-field-container');
   if (existingNoteField && existingNoteField.getAttribute('data-highlight-id') === element.dataset.highlightId) {
     return;
   }
   ```

**Why It Works**:
- Mousedown fires BEFORE click
- We set a flag during mousedown
- Highlight click handler sees flag and ignores the click
- Toolbar doesn't move
- Click event successfully hits the button

**Key Insight**: The gap between mousedown and click is where UI problems happen. By intercepting at mousedown, we prevent the cascade of events that was breaking the buttons.

---

### 2. **Draggable UI Elements** 🎯 HIGH PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 3-4 hours  
**Status**: ✅ COMPLETED (Simplified implementation)

**Requirements**:
- [x] Make highlight button draggable
- [x] Make mini toolbar draggable (kept with position saving)
- [x] Show drag handle on hover
- [x] Snap to viewport edges (boundary checking)
- [x] Smooth drag animation
- [x] Prevent dragging outside viewport

**Implementation Details**:
- Highlight button: Draggable but always starts at calculated position (no saving)
- Mini toolbar: Draggable with saved positions per domain
- Removed all delays and throttling for instant response
- Direct DOM updates for smooth dragging
- Uses position: fixed for viewport consistency

**Optimizations Applied**:
- No Redux state updates during drag
- Removed requestAnimationFrame and throttling
- Direct style updates for zero-lag dragging
- Simplified double-click (no action needed)

**Files Created**:
- `src/content/ui/draggable.js` - Core draggable functionality
- `src/content/utils/position-storage.js` - Domain-based position storage

**Files Modified**:
- `src/store/uiSlice.js` - Added drag state and position management
- `src/content/features/highlight-button.js` - Made draggable
- `src/content/features/mini-toolbar.js` - Made draggable
- `src/content/styles.css` - Added drag-related styles
- `src/content/index.js` - Handle async initialization

---

### 3. **Options Menu (3-dots)** ⚙️ HIGH PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 3-4 hours  
**Status**: Not Started

**Core Options (Free Version)**:
- [ ] Add 3-dots menu to each highlight item
- [ ] "Pin to Top" - Keep highlight at top of list
- [ ] "Archive" - Hide but keep highlight
- [ ] "Hide Until Next Visit" - Temporary hide
- [ ] "Copy Link" - Copy direct link to highlight
- [ ] "Site Settings" submenu:
  - [ ] Disable on this site
  - [ ] Reset UI positions
  - [ ] Hide popup on this site

**UI Requirements**:
- Dropdown menu on click
- Icons for each option
- Keyboard navigation support
- Click outside to close
- Smooth animations

**Technical Notes**:
- Add `pinned`, `archived`, `hidden` flags to highlight data
- Site-specific settings in Chrome storage
- Context menu component

---

### 4. **Keyboard Shortcuts** 🎹 MEDIUM PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 2-3 hours  
**Status**: Not Started

**Requirements**:
- [ ] Ctrl/Cmd+Shift+H to highlight current selection
- [ ] Escape to dismiss selection
- [ ] Delete key to remove selected highlight
- [ ] Arrow keys to navigate between highlights
- [ ] Show shortcuts in popup footer
- [ ] Add shortcuts help dialog

**Technical Notes**:
- Use Chrome Commands API in manifest.json
- Handle cross-platform (Mac/Windows/Linux)
- Prevent conflicts with website shortcuts

---

### 5. **UI Polish & Empty States** 🎨 LOW PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 2-3 hours  
**Status**: Not Started

**Requirements**:
- [ ] Empty state illustration (no highlights)
- [ ] Loading spinner for async operations
- [ ] Error states with helpful messages
- [ ] Success toast notifications
- [ ] Smooth transitions/animations
- [ ] Highlight count badges by color

**Design Assets Needed**:
- [ ] Empty state SVG illustration
- [ ] Loading animation
- [ ] Error icon
- [ ] Success checkmark

---

### 6. **Performance Optimization** ⚡ HIGH PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 2-3 hours  
**Status**: Not Started

**Testing Checklist**:
- [ ] Test with 100+ highlights on single page
- [ ] Test with 500 total highlights (free limit)
- [ ] Memory profiling for leaks
- [ ] Test on heavy sites (Reddit, Facebook, Wikipedia)
- [ ] Optimize highlight restoration speed
- [ ] Batch storage operations
- [ ] Implement virtual scrolling for popup list

**Performance Targets**:
- Page load with 100 highlights: < 500ms
- Highlight creation: < 50ms
- Popup open time: < 100ms

---

### 7. **Chrome Web Store Preparation** 📦 CRITICAL
**Time Estimate**: 3-4 hours  
**Status**: Not Started

**Store Listing**:
- [ ] Write compelling description (short & detailed)
- [ ] Create feature list with emojis
- [ ] Prepare 5 screenshots (1280x800)
- [ ] Create promotional tile (440x280)
- [ ] Small promotional tile (920x680)
- [ ] Marquee image (1400x560) [optional]

**Technical Requirements**:
- [ ] Update manifest.json metadata
- [ ] Ensure all permissions justified
- [ ] Remove console.logs from production
- [ ] Minify CSS/JS files
- [ ] Create ZIP package for submission

**Content Needed**:
- [ ] Privacy policy page (hosted)
- [ ] Support email/website
- [ ] Demo video (optional but recommended)

---

### 8. **Testing & Bug Fixes** 🐛 HIGH PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 3-4 hours  
**Status**: Ongoing

**Browser Testing**:
- [ ] Chrome latest version
- [ ] Chrome 3 versions back
- [ ] Different OS (Windows/Mac/Linux)
- [ ] Different screen resolutions

**Website Testing**:
- [ ] Google Docs
- [ ] Medium.com
- [ ] Wikipedia
- [ ] GitHub
- [ ] Reddit
- [ ] News sites (CNN, BBC)
- [ ] React SPAs
- [ ] E-commerce sites

**Edge Cases**:
- [ ] Iframe content
- [ ] Dynamic content (infinite scroll)
- [ ] RTL languages
- [ ] Very long pages
- [ ] Conflicting extensions

---

### 9. **Documentation** 📚 MEDIUM PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 2 hours  
**Status**: Not Started

**User Documentation**:
- [ ] Update README with features
- [ ] Create HELP.md with FAQs
- [ ] Add keyboard shortcuts guide
- [ ] Installation instructions
- [ ] Troubleshooting guide

**Developer Documentation**:
- [ ] Code architecture overview
- [ ] Contribution guidelines
- [ ] Local development setup
- [ ] Testing guide

---

## 📅 Suggested Timeline

### Week 1 (Current Week)
1. **Day 1-2**: Basic Notes Feature with Detail View
2. **Day 3-4**: Draggable UI Elements
3. **Day 5**: Options Menu (3-dots)

### Week 2
1. **Day 1**: Keyboard Shortcuts
2. **Day 2-3**: Performance Testing & Optimization
3. **Day 4-5**: Chrome Web Store Preparation

### Week 3
1. **Day 1-2**: Final Testing & Bug Fixes
2. **Day 3**: UI Polish & Documentation
3. **Day 4**: Submit to Chrome Web Store
4. **Day 5**: Address review feedback (if any)

---

## 🎯 MVP Launch Checklist

**Must Have**:
- [x] Core highlighting works reliably
- [x] Highlights persist across sessions
- [x] Basic export functionality
- [ ] Notes feature (decided for free version)
- [ ] Performance validated
- [ ] Store listing ready

**Nice to Have**:
- [ ] Keyboard shortcuts
- [ ] Empty states
- [ ] Animations
- [ ] Demo video

**Can Wait**:
- Advanced customization
- Backup/restore
- Themes
- Integrations

---

## 🚨 Known Issues to Fix

1. **High Priority**:
   - None currently identified

2. **Medium Priority**:
   - Highlight button sometimes appears in wrong position on first selection
   - Color picker position on small screens

3. **Low Priority**:
   - Optimize bundle size (currently ~200KB)
   - Add TypeScript for better type safety

---

## 📈 Success Metrics

**Launch Goals**:
- 100 installs in first week
- 4.5+ star rating
- 10+ reviews in first month
- < 5 bug reports per 100 users

**Performance Metrics**:
- Page load impact: < 50ms
- Memory usage: < 50MB
- CPU usage: < 5% idle

---

## 🔄 Post-Launch Roadmap

**Version 1.1** (2 weeks post-launch):
- Bug fixes based on user feedback
- Performance improvements
- Additional keyboard shortcuts

**Version 1.2** (1 month post-launch):
- Firefox version
- Import/export improvements
- Better error handling

**Version 2.0** (3 months post-launch):
- PRO version launch
- Cloud sync
- Advanced features

---

## 📝 Notes

- Focus on reliability over features for initial launch
- Keep free version simple but complete
- Gather user feedback early and often
- Plan PRO features based on user requests

---

*Use this document to track progress. Update status and check off items as completed.*

Commit message:

feat: Add keyboard shortcuts for highlighting
- Add Ctrl/Cmd+Shift+H to highlight selected text
- Add Escape key to dismiss selection and close menus
- Add Delete key to remove hovered highlights
- Add collapsible shortcuts footer in popup
- Handle shortcuts directly in content script for reliability
- Support both Ctrl and Cmd on Mac for flexibility
- Auto-detect platform and show appropriate modifier keys

Keyboard shortcuts make the extension more efficient for power users
who prefer keyboard navigation over mouse clicks.

REMAINING_TASKS.md, after:

# Chrome Web Highlighter - Remaining Tasks Tracker

## 📊 Project Status Overview
**Current Version**: MVP Complete (Core features working)  
**Target Release**: Chrome Web Store Free Version  
**Last Updated**: January 2025

---

## ✅ Completed Features
- [x] Core highlighting functionality
- [x] Highlight persistence and restoration
- [x] Color selection (4 colors)
- [x] Mini toolbar with actions
- [x] Popup with highlight list
- [x] Export (JSON & Text)
- [x] Search & Filter functionality
- [x] Clear All with confirmation
- [x] Undo for individual deletes
- [x] Dark glassmorphic theme
- [x] Modular architecture

---

## 🚀 Remaining Tasks for FREE Version Launch

### 1. **Basic Notes Feature with Detail View** ⭐ HIGH PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 4-5 hours  
**Status**: ✅ COMPLETED

**Requirements**:
- [x] Implement detail view pattern in popup
- [x] Add back navigation from detail to list view
- [x] Show full highlight text in detail view
- [x] Add note textarea (500 char limit) with character counter
- [x] Display note preview in list view (first 50 chars)
- [x] Note indicator icon for highlights with notes
- [x] Save/edit notes functionality
- [x] Export notes with highlights
- [x] **BONUS: Notes in Mini Toolbar** - Added expandable note field

**Detail View Layout**:
- Back button header
- Full highlight text (not truncated)
- Note textarea with char counter
- Color picker row
- Action buttons (Copy, Delete)

**Technical Notes**:
- Update highlight data structure to include `note` field
- Add view state management for list/detail navigation
- Smooth transitions between views

### 1.1 **Mini Toolbar Notes Feature** ✅ COMPLETED
**What Made Save/Cancel Buttons Work**:

**The Critical Fix**: Understanding event capture vs bubble phases in nested interactive elements.

**Problem**: 
- Highlight click handler used capture phase: `addEventListener('click', handler, true)`
- This meant it received events BEFORE the note field could stop them
- Timeline: mousedown → highlight clicks → toolbar moves → click fires on empty space

**Solution - Three Protection Layers**:

1. **Mousedown Flag System** (The Key Fix):
   ```javascript
   // Detect mousedown on note field BEFORE click happens
   document.addEventListener('mousedown', (e) => {
     if (e.target.closest('.note-field-container')) {
       this._ignoreNextHighlightClick = true;
       setTimeout(() => this._ignoreNextHighlightClick = false, 100);
     }
   }, true);
   ```

2. **Direct Click Detection**:
   ```javascript
   // In highlight click handler
   if (e.target.closest('.note-field-container')) {
     return; // Ignore clicks on note field
   }
   ```

3. **Existing Note Field Check**:
   ```javascript
   // Prevent repositioning if note field already open
   const existingNoteField = document.querySelector('.note-field-container');
   if (existingNoteField && existingNoteField.getAttribute('data-highlight-id') === element.dataset.highlightId) {
     return;
   }
   ```

**Why It Works**:
- Mousedown fires BEFORE click
- We set a flag during mousedown
- Highlight click handler sees flag and ignores the click
- Toolbar doesn't move
- Click event successfully hits the button

**Key Insight**: The gap between mousedown and click is where UI problems happen. By intercepting at mousedown, we prevent the cascade of events that was breaking the buttons.

---

### 2. **Draggable UI Elements** 🎯 HIGH PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 3-4 hours  
**Status**: ✅ COMPLETED (Simplified implementation)

**Requirements**:
- [x] Make highlight button draggable
- [x] Make mini toolbar draggable (kept with position saving)
- [x] Show drag handle on hover
- [x] Snap to viewport edges (boundary checking)
- [x] Smooth drag animation
- [x] Prevent dragging outside viewport

**Implementation Details**:
- Highlight button: Draggable but always starts at calculated position (no saving)
- Mini toolbar: Draggable with saved positions per domain
- Removed all delays and throttling for instant response
- Direct DOM updates for smooth dragging
- Uses position: fixed for viewport consistency

**Optimizations Applied**:
- No Redux state updates during drag
- Removed requestAnimationFrame and throttling
- Direct style updates for zero-lag dragging
- Simplified double-click (no action needed)

**Files Created**:
- `src/content/ui/draggable.js` - Core draggable functionality
- `src/content/utils/position-storage.js` - Domain-based position storage

**Files Modified**:
- `src/store/uiSlice.js` - Added drag state and position management
- `src/content/features/highlight-button.js` - Made draggable
- `src/content/features/mini-toolbar.js` - Made draggable
- `src/content/styles.css` - Added drag-related styles
- `src/content/index.js` - Handle async initialization

---

### 3. **Options Menu (3-dots)** ⚙️ HIGH PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 3-4 hours  
**Status**: ✅ COMPLETED

**Core Options (Free Version)**:
- [x] Add 3-dots menu to each highlight item
- [x] "Pin to Top" - Keep highlight at top of list
- [x] "Archive" - Hide but keep highlight
- [x] "Hide Until Next Visit" - Temporary hide
- [x] "Copy Link" - Copy direct link to highlight
- [x] "Site Settings" submenu:
  - [x] Disable on this site
  - [x] Reset UI positions (via gear icon on highlight button)
  - [x] Hide popup on this site (via gear icon on highlight button)

**UI Requirements**:
- Dropdown menu on click
- Icons for each option
- Keyboard navigation support
- Click outside to close
- Smooth animations

**Technical Notes**:
- Add `pinned`, `archived`, `hidden` flags to highlight data
- Site-specific settings in Chrome storage
- Context menu component

---

### 4. **Keyboard Shortcuts** 🎹 MEDIUM PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 2-3 hours  
**Status**: ✅ COMPLETED

**Requirements**:
- [x] Ctrl/Cmd+Shift+H to highlight current selection
- [x] Escape to dismiss selection
- [x] Delete key to remove selected highlight
- [x] Show shortcuts in popup footer
- [ ] Arrow keys to navigate between highlights (future enhancement)
- [ ] Add shortcuts help dialog (future enhancement)

**Implementation Notes**:
- Keyboard shortcuts handled directly in content script for reliability
- Works with both Ctrl and Cmd on Mac for flexibility
- Shortcuts displayed dynamically in popup based on platform

**Technical Notes**:
- Use Chrome Commands API in manifest.json
- Handle cross-platform (Mac/Windows/Linux)
- Prevent conflicts with website shortcuts

---

### 5. **UI Polish & Empty States** 🎨 LOW PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 2-3 hours  
**Status**: Not Started

**Requirements**:
- [ ] Empty state illustration (no highlights)
- [ ] Loading spinner for async operations
- [ ] Error states with helpful messages
- [ ] Success toast notifications
- [ ] Smooth transitions/animations
- [ ] Highlight count badges by color

**Design Assets Needed**:
- [ ] Empty state SVG illustration
- [ ] Loading animation
- [ ] Error icon
- [ ] Success checkmark

---

### 6. **Performance Optimization** ⚡ HIGH PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 2-3 hours  
**Status**: Not Started

**Testing Checklist**:
- [ ] Test with 100+ highlights on single page
- [ ] Test with 500 total highlights (free limit)
- [ ] Memory profiling for leaks
- [ ] Test on heavy sites (Reddit, Facebook, Wikipedia)
- [ ] Optimize highlight restoration speed
- [ ] Batch storage operations
- [ ] Implement virtual scrolling for popup list

**Performance Targets**:
- Page load with 100 highlights: < 500ms
- Highlight creation: < 50ms
- Popup open time: < 100ms

---

### 7. **Chrome Web Store Preparation** 📦 CRITICAL
**Time Estimate**: 3-4 hours  
**Status**: Not Started

**Store Listing**:
- [ ] Write compelling description (short & detailed)
- [ ] Create feature list with emojis
- [ ] Prepare 5 screenshots (1280x800)
- [ ] Create promotional tile (440x280)
- [ ] Small promotional tile (920x680)
- [ ] Marquee image (1400x560) [optional]

**Technical Requirements**:
- [ ] Update manifest.json metadata
- [ ] Ensure all permissions justified
- [ ] Remove console.logs from production
- [ ] Minify CSS/JS files
- [ ] Create ZIP package for submission

**Content Needed**:
- [ ] Privacy policy page (hosted)
- [ ] Support email/website
- [ ] Demo video (optional but recommended)

---

### 8. **Testing & Bug Fixes** 🐛 HIGH PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 3-4 hours  
**Status**: Ongoing

**Browser Testing**:
- [ ] Chrome latest version
- [ ] Chrome 3 versions back
- [ ] Different OS (Windows/Mac/Linux)
- [ ] Different screen resolutions

**Website Testing**:
- [ ] Google Docs
- [ ] Medium.com
- [ ] Wikipedia
- [ ] GitHub
- [ ] Reddit
- [ ] News sites (CNN, BBC)
- [ ] React SPAs
- [ ] E-commerce sites

**Edge Cases**:
- [ ] Iframe content
- [ ] Dynamic content (infinite scroll)
- [ ] RTL languages
- [ ] Very long pages
- [ ] Conflicting extensions

---

### 9. **Documentation** 📚 MEDIUM PRIORITY
**Time Estimate**: 2 hours  
**Status**: Not Started

**User Documentation**:
- [ ] Update README with features
- [ ] Create HELP.md with FAQs
- [ ] Add keyboard shortcuts guide
- [ ] Installation instructions
- [ ] Troubleshooting guide

**Developer Documentation**:
- [ ] Code architecture overview
- [ ] Contribution guidelines
- [ ] Local development setup
- [ ] Testing guide

---

## 📅 Suggested Timeline

### Week 1 (Current Week)
1. **Day 1-2**: Basic Notes Feature with Detail View
2. **Day 3-4**: Draggable UI Elements
3. **Day 5**: Options Menu (3-dots)

### Week 2
1. **Day 1**: Keyboard Shortcuts
2. **Day 2-3**: Performance Testing & Optimization
3. **Day 4-5**: Chrome Web Store Preparation

### Week 3
1. **Day 1-2**: Final Testing & Bug Fixes
2. **Day 3**: UI Polish & Documentation
3. **Day 4**: Submit to Chrome Web Store
4. **Day 5**: Address review feedback (if any)

---

## 🎯 MVP Launch Checklist

**Must Have**:
- [x] Core highlighting works reliably
- [x] Highlights persist across sessions
- [x] Basic export functionality
- [ ] Notes feature (decided for free version)
- [ ] Performance validated
- [ ] Store listing ready

**Nice to Have**:
- [ ] Keyboard shortcuts
- [ ] Empty states
- [ ] Animations
- [ ] Demo video

**Can Wait**:
- Advanced customization
- Backup/restore
- Themes
- Integrations

---

## 🚨 Known Issues to Fix

1. **High Priority**:
   - None currently identified

2. **Medium Priority**:
   - Highlight button sometimes appears in wrong position on first selection
   - Color picker position on small screens

3. **Low Priority**:
   - Optimize bundle size (currently ~200KB)
   - Add TypeScript for better type safety

---

## 📈 Success Metrics

**Launch Goals**:
- 100 installs in first week
- 4.5+ star rating
- 10+ reviews in first month
- < 5 bug reports per 100 users

**Performance Metrics**:
- Page load impact: < 50ms
- Memory usage: < 50MB
- CPU usage: < 5% idle

---

## 🔄 Post-Launch Roadmap

**Version 1.1** (2 weeks post-launch):
- Bug fixes based on user feedback
- Performance improvements
- Additional keyboard shortcuts

**Version 1.2** (1 month post-launch):
- Firefox version
- Import/export improvements
- Better error handling

**Version 2.0** (3 months post-launch):
- PRO version launch
- Cloud sync
- Advanced features

---

## 📝 Notes

- Focus on reliability over features for initial launch
- Keep free version simple but complete
- Gather user feedback early and often
- Plan PRO features based on user requests

---

*Use this document to track progress. Update status and check off items as completed.*
